# Learining Guide and reference

## Introduction
This document is intended for someone who just started to learn the usage of millimeter wave radar from TI, but has no idea where to start and which document to read. I will try my best to use plain English to introduce the mmwave radar concisly. Then I will brief you though some important documents that I think is essential before further learning.  
  
IWR6843AOPEVM is an IWR6843 millimeterwave radar with Antenna-On-Package (AOP) Evaluation Module (EVM). IWR6843AOP has antennas on the top of the IC, the RF circuit to drive the transmitting antenna and process signals from receiving antennas. It also can process the ADC data generated by RF circuit and detect the objects. The Evaluation Module (EVM) refer to the entire circuit board that responsible for power, communication, physical connection, etc. with other devices.  
  
The radar system can be roughly seperated into 3 parts. RF part, data processing part and control.  
**RF part** (Radar Sub-System BSS) is responsible for transmitting, receving and sampling of the RF signals. It generats a large amout of data, which then be processed by the data processing part. RF part can not be programmed by user, it can only be controlled by a few APIs provided.  
  
The **data processing part** (DSP Sub-System DSS or C674x) need to transfer the ADC sample results into range and doppler informations for object detection. The ADC sample of received signal need to go through multiple computations, also called data processing units (DPUs), such as Range FFT, optinal Static Clutter Removal (which makes the radar only detect moving objects), Doppler FFT, CFAR (detect objects according to range and doppler signal) and Angle of Arrival (AoA) FFT. These computations goes one after another and form a data processing chain (DPC). The DPC is controlled by data path manager (DPM). Data processing part is user programmable.  
  
The **control layer** (Master Sub-System MSS or R4F) is responsible for controlling other 2 layers, commnicating with extrnal devices and so on. The control layer can be programmed by user.  

For IWR6843AOP, which pocesses Hardware Accelerator and Digital Signal Processor, the data processing tasks can be done by these 2 components with little supervison from main processor.

The result of data process will then be send to external devices with a few possible communication protocols.
  
## Recommended reading order of the documents  
Before getting your hands on the code, you need to understand the operation principle of the mmwave radar. Bellow I will introduce some essential documents.
  
### Basic usage of the radar  
You should first learn how to use the module to aviod causing damage to it. Following these 3 documents introduce some basic idea of the mmwave radar, including how to power it on, how to connect it to a computer, how to flash program into it, how to run the out-of-box demo, etc.  
1.	[mmwave sensors userguide](https://www.ti.com/lit/pdf/swru546)  
This document briefly introduces a few mmWave radar devices. Start from page 47, the document introduces the appearance of IWR6843AOPEVM. It also covers how to connect the module to a computer, how to install it on a MMWAVEICBOOST for debugging of program in the radar. This document is suitable for first receiving the radar and learn how to setup the radar for testing.  
  
2.	[mmwave sdk user guide](https://dr-download.ti.com/software-development/software-development-kit-sdk/MD-PIrUeCYr3X/03.05.00.04/mmwave_sdk_user_guide.pdf)  
This document introduces some basic operations on the radar. Firstly, the document introduces how to run the out of box demo with mmwave demo visualizer, this can give user an idea about what the radar is capable of. Next, the document introduces how to program the radar and the structure of radar program. The document is suitable for anyone that aim to modify the internal program of the radar.  

3. Out-of-Box Demo  
Out-of-Box (OOB) Demo shows you the basic capability of the mmwave radar. Your radar shoulded be shipped with a OOB program loaded. You can connect it to a computer and lunch [Mmw Demo Visualizer](https://dev.ti.com/gallery/view/mmwave/mmWave_Demo_Visualizer/ver/4.2.0/). Try the different settings and see the results.  
  
###	Working principle of radar  
Next, it is basic to know the operating principle of the mmwave radar. Following two documents introduce what a *chirp* means in mmwave radar, how the radar use it to detect the range, velocity and the position of objects. Without this knowledge, it is hard to understand any further material.  

1.	[The fundamentals of millimeter wave radar sensors](https://www.ti.com/lit/pdf/spyy005)  
This document introduces the basic principle of millimeter wave radar, including how radar measure the range, velocity and the angle of objects. This is also introduced in [video from training.ti.com](https://training.ti.com/intro-mmwave-sensing-fmcw-radars-module-1-range-estimation). This document and videos are suitable for understanding basic principle of millimeter wave radar and is a must for almost all further operations on radar.  
  
2.	[MIMO Radar](https://www.ti.com/lit/pdf/swra554)  
This document further introduces how the mmwave radar with multiple receiving antennas estimate the angle of the detected object. This document is a complement for the The fundamentals of millimeter wave radar sensors, it helps to from a comprehensive understanding of the mechanism of mmWave radar.
  
###	Documents for radar data processing architectures  
You may wish to modify the algorithm of the radar to realise your won purpose. Thus, you need to understand how the radar process the data. The following 2 documents introduce the mechanism of radar data processing units.
1.	[mmwave sdk user guide](https://dr-download.ti.com/software-development/software-development-kit-sdk/MD-PIrUeCYr3X/03.05.00.04/mmwave_sdk_user_guide.pdf) , session 5, start from page 42  
This document introduces the architecture of the software in the mmWave radar. This includes the functionality of different layers and components in the mmWave radar software, such as data path manager, data processing chain and data processing unit. This document may not be easy to understand, but it gives a brief idea of how the system is constructed and how data is processed in the radar.  
  
2.	[introduction to the DSP Subsystem in the IWR6843](https://www.ti.com/lit/pdf/swra621)  
This document briefly introduces the function and operations in the DSP and HWA of the radar system. It corresponds to the data processing unit (DPU) in the software. This document helps to understand how algorithms such as FFT and CFAR is preformed on the data from ADC inside HWA and DSP, and how data is transferred between different algorithms. This document is a must for whom wish to modify the signal processing algorithm inside radar.  
  
###	Documents for software of the radar  
Now you can try to modify the template code. These 2 documents provide rather intuitive explaination of what is the original source code trying to do. You can read them first before jumping into the source code.  
1. mmwave_sdk_module_documentation  
Located at mmwave_sdk<version>\docs. This document give links to documents of code of radar software. It includes the brief introductions for all functions and data structures. It also contains some detailed introductions of the mechanisms and workflow of demo and different modules.   
 
2. Template codes  
The template codes are located in the test folder of different modules. These templates are much smaller and simpler than the demo code and are easier to track and follow. They demo the usage of module APIs or the working principle of the modules of interest.

### Refernce to other useful materials
Here I reference all other useful materials.  
1. evm_setup_operational_modes.html  
Located at mmwave_industrial_toolbox_<ver>\docs\hardware_guides. It includes how to set the hardware switches on the EVM module and MMWAVEICBOOST to set the radar EVM operate at stand alone mode or debug mode. The [video version](https://training.ti.com/hardware-setup-mmwaveicboost-and-antenna-module) is also helpful.  
  
2. [Programming Chirp Parameters in TI Radar Devices](https://www.ti.com/lit/pdf/swra553)  
This document describes how to set the chirp parameters in details.
  
3. [Radar Hardware Accelerator](https://www.ti.com/lit/swru526)  
This document introduce the hardware accelerator in details.
