# Learining Guide

## Introduction
This document is intended for someone who just started to learn the usage of millimeter wave radar from TI, but has no idea where to start and which document to read. I will try my best to use plain English to introduce the mmwave radar concisly. Then I will brief you though some important documents that I think is essential before further learning.  
  
IWR6843AOPEVM is an IWR6843 millimeterwave radar with Antenna-On-Package (AOP) Evaluation Module (EVM). IWR6843AOP has antennas on the top of the IC, the RF circuit to drive the transmitting antenna and process signals from receiving antennas. It also can process the ADC data generated by RF circuit and detect the objects. The Evaluation Module (EVM) refer to the entire circuit board that responsible for power, communication, physical connection, etc. with other devices.  
  
The radar system can be roughly seperated into 2 parts. RF part and data processing part.  
RF part is responsible for transmitting, receving and sampling of the RF signals. It generats a large amout of data, which then be processed by the data processing part.  
The data processing need to transfer the ADC sample results into range and doppler informations for object detection. The ADC sample of received signal need to go through multiple computations, also called data processing units (DPUs), such as Range FFT, optinal Static Clutter Removal (which makes the radar only detect moving objects), Doppler FFT, CFAR (detect objects according to range and doppler signal) and Angle of Arrival (AoA) FFT. These computations goes one after another and form a data processing chain (DPC). The DPC is controlled by data path manager (DPM). 

The results will then be send to external devices.  
  
## Reading List
